# BPKB_NLP_LLM

Repository for the ***BPA Canvas project*** using NLP- and LLM-based approaches for the construction of a BPKB core.

## NLP-based approach

The folder *NLP* contains the input, the implementation, and the output of the NLP-based approach.

The implementation is in: *code/project_EKGwithNLP.py*.

The subfolder *coreferencing_resolution* contains the files:

- *AllenNLP_coreferencing_resolution.txt*
- *AllenNLP_coreferencing_resolution.png* (it is a graphical representation of the corresponding .txt file)

These files are created using the tool AllenNLP. 

- *AllenNLP_coreferencing_resolution_parsed.tsv*

The file has the following format:
```
id \t words_to_replace \t positions_in_text
```

For example, 
```
0  it  23
```
means that the word "it" on position 23 must be replaced by the word with id 0 from the *mapping.tsv* file.

- *mapping.tsv*

The file format is:
```
id \t words_after_coreferencing
```

For example, 
```
0  the order
``` 
means that the word "it" from the previous file is replaced with "the order"

The subfolder *input* contains the input files used by SpaCy:

- *input_all_beforeCoref.txt* contains the BP statement and the User Story before coreferencing resolution. The file

- *input_all_afterCoref_new.txt* contains the BP statement and the User Story after coreferencing resolution. Lastly, the file

- *sentences.txt* contains the text (after coreferencing resolution) split by sentences which is the input for the next step.

The subfolder *output* contains the output files generated by SpaCy. 

After the categorization, the Kinds are in the following files:
- *actors_withAction_sort_uniq.txt* contains the Actors of the BPKB
- *verb_withSubj_sort_uniq.txt* contains the Processes of the BPKB
- *direct_object_sort_uniq.txt* contains the Objects of the BPKB

The Tasks are in the file:
- *triples.txt* contains the Tasks of the BPKB (in the form of triples <Actor, Process, Object>).

Lastly, the Glossary is in:
- *glossary_sort_uniq.txt*

## LLM-based approach

The folder *Gemini* contains the input prompts, where ZS stands for Zero-Shot prompting and FS for Few-Shot prompting. 
Files are:

- *categorization_FS.txt*
- *categorization_ZS.txt*

For extracting the Kinds (e.g., Actors, Objects, Processes) of the BPKB.

- *glossary_FS.txt*
- *glossary_ZS.txt*

For creating the Glossary (i.e., terms and their definitions) of the BPKB.

- *tasks_FS.txt*
- *tasks_ZS.txt*

For extracting the Tasks in the form of triples <Actor, Process, Object>.


